---
title: "[Coursera02] Algorithmic Toolbox week01" 
excerpt: "Algorithmic Toolbox week01 : Programming Challenges"
mathjax : True
---
## Welcome

In this specialization you will learn the theory behind the algorithm. Implement algorithm in the programming language of your choice and apply them to solving practical problems such as assembling the genome from millions of tiny fragments, the largest jigsaw puzzle ever assembled by humans. >> To conclude, algorithms are everywhere. And it is important to design your algorithms and to implement them. To turn you into a pro in algorithm design we will give you nearly 100 programming assignments in this class. Your solutions will be checked automatically, and you will learn how to implement, test, and debug fast algorithms solving large and difficult problems in seconds. We look forward to seeing you in this class. We know it will make you a better programmer. 

## Solving a Programming Challenge in Five EasySteps
Below we summarize what we’ve learned in this chapter.

1. __ReadingProblemStatement Start by reading the problem statement that contains the description of a computational task, time and memory limits, and a few sample tests.__ Make sure you understand how an output matches an input in each sample case. If time and memory limits are not speciﬁed explicitly in the problem statement, the following default values are used.
2. __DesigninganAlgorithm After designing an algorithm, prove that it is correct and try to estimate its expected running time on the most complex inputs speciﬁed in the constraints section.__ If you laptop performs roughly 108–109 operations persecond, and the maximum size of a dataset in the problem description is n = 105, then an algorithm with quadratic running time is unlikely to ﬁtintothetimelimit(since n2 =1010), while a solution with running time O(nlogn) will. However, an O(n2) solution will ﬁt if n = 1000, and if n=100, even an O(n3) solutions will ﬁt. Although polynomial algorithms remain unknown for some hard problems in this book, a solution with O(2nn2) running time will probably ﬁt into the time limit as long as n is smaller than 20.
3. __ImplementinganAlgorithm Start implementing your algorithm in one of the following programming languages supported by our automated grading system: C, C++, C#, Haskell, Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Python2, Python3, Ruby, or Scala.__ For all problems, we provide starter solutions for C++, Java, and Python3. Forotherprogramminglanguages,youneedtoimplementasolutionfrom scratch. The grading system detects the programming language of your submission automatically, based on the extension of the submission ﬁle. We have reference solutions in C++, Java, and Python3 (that we don’t share with you) which solve the problem correctly under the given constraints, and spend at most 1/3 of the time limit and at most 1/2 of the memory limit. You can also use other languages, and we’ve estimated the timelimitmultipliersforthem. However,wehavenoguaranteethatacorrect solution for a particular problem running under the given time and memory constraints exists in any of those other languages. In the Appendix, we list compiler versions and ﬂags used by the grading system. We recommend using the same compiler ﬂags when you test yoursolutionlocally. Thiswillincreasethechancesthatyourprogrambehaves in the same way on your machine and on the testing machine (note that a buggy program may behave diﬀerently when compiled by diﬀerent compilers, or even by the same compiler with diﬀerent ﬂags).
4. __Testing and Debugging Submitting your implementation to the grading system without testing it ﬁrst is a bad idea!__ Start with small datasets and make sure that your program produces correct results on all sample datasets. Then proceed to checking how long it takes to process a large dataset. To estimate the running time, it makes sense to implement your algorithm as a function likesolve(dataset)andthenimplementanadditionalproceduregenerate() thatproducesalargedataset. Forexample, if an input to a problem is a sequence of integers of length1≤n≤105, then generate a sequence of length 105, pass it to your solve() function, and ensure that the program outputs the result quickly. Check the boundary values to ensure that your program processes correctly both short sequences (e.g., with 2 elements) and long sequences (e.g., with 105 elements). If a sequence of integers from 0 to, let’s say, 106 is given as an input, check how your program behaves when it is given a sequence 0,0,...,0 or a sequence 106,106,...,106. Afterwards, check it also on randomly generated data. Check degenerate cases like an empty set, three points on a single line, a tree which consists of a single path of nodes, etc. After it appears that your program works on all these tests, proceed to stress testing. Implement a slow, but simple and correct algorithm and check that two programs produce the same result (note however that this is not applicable to problems where the output is not unique). Generate random test cases as well as biased tests cases such as those with only smallnumbersorasmallrangeoflargenumbers,stringscontainingasingle letter “a” or only two diﬀerent letters (as opposed to strings composed of all possible Latin letters), and so on. Think about other possible tests which could be peculiar in some sense. For example, if you are generating graphs,trygeneratingtrees,disconnectedgraphs,completegraphs,bipartite graphs, etc. If you generate trees, try generating paths, binary trees, stars, etc. If you are generating integers, try generating both prime and composite numbers.
5. __Submitting to the Grading System When you are done with testing, submit your program to the grading system!__ Go to the submission page,create a new submission, and upload a ﬁle with your program (make sure to upload a source ﬁle rather than an executable). The grading system then compiles your program and runs it on a set of carefully constructed tests to check that it outputs a correct result for all tests and that it ﬁts into the time and memory limits. The grading usually takes less than a minute, but in rare cases, when the servers are overloaded, it might take longer. Please be patient. You can safely leave the page when your solution is uploaded. As a result, you get a feedback message from the grading system. You wanttoseethe“Good job!” messageindicatingthatyourprogrampassed all the tests. The messages “Wrong answer”, “Time limit exceeded”, “Memory limit exceeded”notifyyouthatyourprogramfailedduetoone of these reasons. If you program fails on one of the ﬁrst two test cases, the grader will report this to you and will show you the test case and the output of your program. This is done to help you to get the input/output format right. In all other cases, the grader will not show you the test case where your program fails.